---
layout: docs
title: Usage / Billing Tab
---

# Usage / Billing Tab

The Usage / Billing tab contains information and controls that are
useful to the account holder or whoever pays the bills. The subtabs of
the Usage / Billing display invoices, account activity, and resource
usage information, as well as allow you to change your plan and update
billing information.

## Your Plan Tab

The Your Plan subtab displays your current plan and its monthly cost. It
also allows you to switch plans by upgrading to a higher available plan
or downgrading to a lower available plan. Plans are listed in order of
cost.

You may change your plan at any time, and changes will be applied
retroactively to the beginning of the current billing cycle. For
example, if you were on a Vae Medium \$29.95 plan when the billing cycle
started and upgrade to a Vae Large \$99.95 plan, you will be immediately
invoiced for the \$70 difference in the cost of the plans. When the
billing cycle is over, overage charges for the entire billing cycle will
be computed based on the new plan cost. If you notice the day before
your billing cycle ends that you will be facing overage charges, you can
upgrade right then and avoid the overage charges by switching to a
larger plan.

> **Tip**
>
> To cancel your account, please send an E-Mail to info@actionverb.com
> or call (800) ATN-VERB, extension 2.

For information about the available plans on Vae, please check out our
[pricing page](http://vaeplatform.com/pricing).

We are confident that Vae is the best service of its kind and want you
to feel comfortable upgrading to a paying plan, so we have a liberal
refund policy. Anyone may cancel their service and get a refund for any
reason at any time. There are no lock-in contracts. If you cancel and
request a refund, we will refund your payment for the most recent month
of service. No questions asked. One refund per person, please.

### Switching to a Different Plan

To switch to a different plan, click the link that says Upgrade to Vae
XXX or Downgrade to Vae XXX on the right side of the plan that you wish
to switch to. This will bring you to a confirmation page with important
information regarding the accounting implications of the plan change you
are about to make.

Because we apply changes retroactively, we generally create a one-time
invoice to cover the difference in cost between your current plan and
the new plan for your current service period. This will be settled to
your credit card at your next billing date. If you are upgrading, this
means that your next payment will be higher than usual because it will
include two months worth of the upgrade cost (this month and next
month). If you are downgrading, your next payment will be lower than
usual because your account will have a positive balance from when you
downgraded.

To complete the plan change, click the Confirm Plan Change button. The
change takes effect immediately.

## Usage Tab

The Usage subtab displays the amount of resources you are using on your
account. Currently, we only track and charge for six resources: data
transfer (bandwidth), diskspace, newsletter sends, store transactions,
users, and video encodes. Each plan includes different levels of each
resource. For information about the available plans on Vae, as well as
our overage pricing rates, please check out our [pricing
page](http://vaeplatform.com/pricing).

The usage table shows 4 columns: Currently Used, Projected, Included,
and Proj. Overage.

Currently Used is the amount of that resource you are currently using.

Projected is the amount of that resource that we expect that you will
use by the end of the month. Data Transfer, Newsletter Sends, Store
Transactions, and Video Encodes are measured as monthly quotas. Since
the billing cycle isn't over yet, we use the information we have to
project what your end-of-month total will be. This is just an estimate,
and we revise it every few hours automatically.

Included is the amount of that resource included in your current plan.

Proj. Overage stands for Projected Overage and is the amount by which we
project that you will exceed your included quota. This number is
calculated by taking the Projected value and subtracting the Included
amount. If less than zero, we display nothing. There is no credit for
unused resources from your plan.

The usage snapshot is updated continuously for newsletter sends and
video encodes, and every few hours for data transfer, diskspace, store
transactions, and users. If you add users or experience a burst of store
transactions, it may take a few hours before the usage page is updated.

Diskspace and Users are billed based on the monthly "high-water" mark,
so deleting files or users will not result in an immediate decrease of
the displayed usage for these resources. You will see a reduction in
usage for your next billing cycle.

By default this tab shows the current billing cycle. You may view usage
from a previous billing cycle by selecting it from the dropdown menu at
the top right of the Usage Snapshot table.

## Invoices Tab

The Invoices subtab displays all invoices that were issued for your
account, newest first. You may click on an invoice number to view the
invoice. Vae issues a separate invoice for every billing cycle period
for each website, even if you prepay your account in advance. Vae will
apply advance payments to invoices automatically

> **Caution**
>
> If you have multiple websites linked on the same account, information
> on this screen will reflect the overall account, which includes all
> websites. A list of included websites will be displayed on the right
> side of the screen.

Vae does not provide paper or fax invoices. We do, however, email
invoices to the billing contact on file on your account.

## Activity Tab

The activity subtab displays all accounting activity on your account,
including invoices and payments, newest first. You may click on an
invoice number to view the invoice.

In the Amount column, negative numbers are amounts we've billed you, and
positive numbers are amounts you've paid. A positive balance means
you've prepaid (or overpaid), and a negative balance means you owe us
money.

We only settle accounts every 30 days. If you have a negative balance,
and have made a payment within the last 30 days, don't worry, your
account is current. We will automatically charge you when the time
comes.

> **Caution**
>
> If you have multiple websites linked on the same account, information
> on this screen will reflect the overall account, which includes all
> websites. A list of included websites will be displayed on the right
> side of the screen.

## Billing Tab

The Billing subtab allows you to view or change the current billing
contact, as well as credit card on file for your account.

### Changing Your Billing Contact

To change your billing contact, click the Change Billing Contact link at
the top right corner of the Billing Contact box. This will link to a
page with a box titled Update Billing Contact. Update all the fields and
click the Save Billing Contact button to complete the process of
updating the billing contact.

Please don't use an E-Mail address hosted on Vae for your Billing
Contact. In the rare event of a Vae downtime, we need to be able to
contact you through alternate means.

### Changing Credit Card on File

To change your credit card on file, click the Change Credit Card on File
link at the top right corner of the Credit Card box. This will link to
an external page at `https://vae.vaesite.com/`:

![](/images/screenshots/content_management/billing_add_card.png)

Enter your information into the box labeled Enter Credit Card
Information and click the Change My Payment Information button to
complete the process of updating your credit card on file.

> **Caution**
>
> To protect us from fraud, we manually approve credit card changes. So,
> changes won't show up immediately on the Billing tab. Changes will
> typically reflect within 1 business day.
