---
layout: docs
title: # Customers Tab
---

# Customers Tab {#backstage.customers}

The Customers tab allows you to view, edit, and search customers of your
online store. It is useful for looking up the order history of a
specific customer.

## All Customers (list view) {#vae.customers.list}

By default, the Customers tab will show you a list of all customers:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customer_list_view.png)

To view a customer, click on their name.

### Adding a Customer

To add a new customer to the website account, click the Create New link
at the top right corner of the Customers list. An Add Customer form will
be displayed with the following fields:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customer_list_view_create_new_button.png)

Clicking the Add Customer button will reveal this form:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/add_customer_form.png)

1.  Name - Full name of the customer.

2.  E-Mail Address - E-Mail address of the customer. For stores that
    implement a login feature, the E-Mail address is used as the
    username for logging in.

3.  Set Password and Confirm Password - Choose a password for this user.
    For stores that implement a login feature, this password is used to
    authenticate customers. You may also leave this field blank.

4.  Tags - Specify a list of tags separated by commas. You may tag
    customers however you'd like, for example: `VIP`,
    `AttendedSeminar`, etc. On the Newsletter tab, newslettters can be
    sent to groups targeted by tag.

Click the Add Customer button to complete the process of adding the
customer.

### Editing a Customer

To edit a customer, simply click the Edit icon next to that customer in
the Customers list. This will open an Edit Customer form with the same
fields as above:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customer_edit_form.png)

Click the Save Customer button to complete the process of editing the
customer.

### Removing a Customer

To remove a customer, simply click the red Delete icon next to that
customer in the Customers list:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customers_delete_button.png)

The customer will be deactivated immediately. After you delete a
customer, they will no longer be able to log in on your website. If the
customer is currently logged in, they will **not** be kicked out of
their current session.

## Search Customers {#vae.customers.search}

To search customers, hover over the Search Customers subtab. This subtab
is located on the right side of the secondary tab menu. Enter the
customer name and click the Search button. The search reuslts will open
into a Search Results subtab:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customers_search.png)

Within the Search Results subtab, you may click on a customer's name to
view that customer, or click on the Edit or Delete icons to edit or
remove the customer, as described in the previous section.

## View Customer {#vae.customers.view}

After clicking on a customer name in the All Customers or Search Results
subtab, you are brought to the Customer subtab. This is the customer
dashboard for the customer, and you can see see all the addresses this
customer has on file, as well as their order history:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customer_info_view.png)

To edit the customer from this screen, click the link at the top right
that says Edit John Doe (*John Doe* will be replaced with the actual
customer name). The editing process is the same as described in the All
Customers section of the manual.

Under Order History, all orders this customer has placed are listed. To
view an order, simply click its order number.

Under Addresses, all addresses that this customer has on file are
listed.

### Adding a Customer Address

To add a new address to the customer, click the Create New link at the
top right corner of the Addresses list:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customer_info_create_new_address_button.png)

An Add Address form will be displayed. Click the Add Address button to
complete the process of adding the customer.

### Editing a Customer Address

To edit a customer address, simply click the Edit icon next to that
address in the Addresses list. This will open an Edit Address form:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customer_address_edit.png)

Click the Save Address button to complete the process of editing the
address.

### Removing a Customer Address

To remove a customer address, simply click the red Delete icon next to
that address in the Addresses list:

![](assets/images/screenshots/content_management/customer_remove_address_button.png)

The address will be deactivated immediately. If the customer is
currently logged in, they may continue to see that address during their
current session.
