---
layout: docs
title: # The Website {#the_website}
---

# The Website {#the_website}

Now that we've discussed Vae's [content management](#content_management)
features, let's move on to the other important aspect of Vae: powerful
website hosting that seamlessly integrates your managed content. Every
Vae account includes a full-featured web hosting account that you have
full control of. You may upload directly to it via FTP, serve your own
HTML files, and run your own PHP scripts. It can do mostly everything
that a standard web hosting account can do.

But the hosting environment on Vae is also enhanced with a number of
awesome features that are not found on standard web hosting. Easily
integrate your managed content through [VaeML](#vaeml). Simplify your
markup and stylesheets with [Haml and Sass](#haml_sass). Automatically
make your URLs [SEO friendly](#seo). Reduce download time with automatic
Javascript minification, Gzipping, and intelligent use of Etags and
expired headers. Intelligent caching minimizes page build times.

We are also experimenting with technologies that will [automatically
migrate your assets to a CDN](#caching) (content delivery network) to
make your webpages load faster than ever before.

In short, Vae bends over backwards to make your sites better, faster,
and more compatible, without requiring you to do anything or even
understand how it works.

In this chapter, we will explain how to use your Vae website hosting to
the max and take advantage of all the features that make Vae awesome.
Some sections of this chapter are intended for reference and can be
skimmed over if you are reading this book straight through. But be sure
to check out our [Cookbook](#cookbook) section, which includes some
great tutorials that will show you how powerful Vae can be.

# Vae Hosting Environment {#hosting}

Vae provides a powerful and unique hosting environment, filled with
features that other website hosting companies would never offer. We
added these features because we are web developers ourselves and are
constantly looking for ways to make development easier and faster.

We are especially proud of our built-in support for [Haml and
Sass](#haml_sass). If you are not using Haml and Sass yet, get ready for
the single biggest improvement to your workflow since, well, Vae. :)

In this section, we go through each of the advanced features of Vae's
hosting environment and explain how to use them and how to make the most
of our hosting offering.
